hey good morning
great to be here today um my name is
itai i'll introduce myself in a sack um
just so i get to know you a little bit
better uh just one question maybe with a
raise of hands so how many here are
working in a bootstrap startup bootstrap
startup
everybody is working in a bootstrap solo
i love that that's amazing um you know
um
15 years ago so before cloudinary uh we
had a we had a dev consultancy
and uh was incredible love that small
dev consultancy worked a lot with
entrepreneurs
really early entrepreneurs early in
their journey helping them build their
products and get them to market
and every so often met hundreds of
entrepreneurs shiny eyes heard their
stories
incredible products and every so often i
heard an entrepreneur that told me i'm
bootstrapping my business which was
insane to me it was really i was i was
working several you know
heavily vc backed companies before that
senior level roles i know how hard it is
to bring a product to market so doing
that without any and it's it's crazy
without any cash and you do that so well
if you're self-sufficient you can grow
and that that's incredible but the thing
is i think that
um
what actually they were telling me
entrepreneurs and i'm not sure if i was
hearing wasn't that that hey we're
self-sufficient we're amazing we're
growing so fast we don't need that money
was basically that hey we're not there
yet
and not there yet usually meant hey uh
no vc said yet yes right just yeah so so
we're we're bootstrapping it but we're
gonna get there really really soon
and that was okay that's crazy that's
your money out of your own pocket it's
it's crazy you can't you can't do that
some people by the way that they meant
hey we're we're really early really
early in our journey we need some more
time and we'll get a product out there
in market soon enough but
then we'll we'll hit the vc crowd
in some cases i remember some veterans
that said hey you know what i'm not
going to do that this time around i've
been around i met you know with
financial institutions i got burned in
the past i'm not going to do that again
so desperately need the money but but
but don't have it and the thing is my
definition my head of what bootstrapping
it was was a little bit different right
because because you can hear that from
what i'm saying it wasn't about hey i i
wasn't able to raise funds just yet it
was um what i was thinking i was hearing
was look we're we're doing so well we
really don't need that right now we
don't need that money we have everything
so let me let me try that question again
right so who here is working at um so
sas company uh recurring revenues
already beginning of initial scale so
there's let's say three million in arr
and growing um trajectories 2x next year
10 full-time employees paying them full
salaries uh and even if a vc will put an
offer in front of you right now you'll
say we don't need it we literally don't
need we have everything we need to
continue to grow this year so who here
works in a bootstrap company
good for you by the way this is crazy so
much fewer hands but this is this is
crazy why am i saying that this is crazy
first of all
um
the word itself i hate the term butch
i'm not sure if you've thought about
that bootstrap what it means literally
means is that you're picking yourself up
with the straps of your own boots right
though the charm itself is a play of
impossibility and i remember a story
that i've read as a little kid um not
sure if you've heard baron moonshousen
anybody heard that really great stories
so fantastical stories and in one of
those stories that i vividly remember
the baron got stuck with his horse in
the middle of a swamp and didn't lose
his composure and what he did basically
was really really easy was he he um
picked himself up by his own hair with
the horse and just took him outside of
the swamp and that was it he was saved
right this is bootstrapping good luck to
all of us right crazy
let's talk about the recipe for a sec um
it's easy my recipe in a way
what does it mean right you you
you're not taking a strong fund because
you don't need them so and you need to
be profitable right they want profitable
uh revenue is bigger than expensive they
won they won there's right no money it's
not me financing it this is literally
the product is finding his itself right
a lot of value that is there and you
don't take money because you don't need
it
you literally don't need it you have
everything maybe in later stages but
currently you just don't need it you're
doing really well
why is that impossible let's talk about
the early days let's talk about the
later days right early days i think it's
really improbable later days it's it's
practically impossible early days um
what do you need to do you need to get
to market you need to build a product in
insanely cost efficiently right crazily
costly there's no money right literally
it's gonna finance itself i need the
product out there and it's not enough i
also need product market for day one
right needs to i can't
the vast majority of startups will pivot
the first year it will redo everything
that you're currently doing you can't no
money right this is it the product needs
to finance itself product market fit the
day one which is crazy by itself you
need an incredibly efficient
go-to-market model right kayak lifetime
value let's return an investment into no
you can't it needs to zero costs you
need to be up in market you need to be
selling right now how do you do that
it's crazy and last thing you need fast
roi on every return investment
everything that you're doing starting
day one you're building the next version
let's build the next version of our
product no we don't literally it needs
to
fast roi how do we even get there so it
is doable very
unlikely but it is doable talk about our
recipe there
but i want to talk about late stage for
a second let's stage let's say 10
million and above 10 50 100 million that
journey there i'm gonna i'm gonna do a
quick math for a second right you're 10
million 20 50 million at scale you have
a very highly efficient go-to-market
machine you're growing going from maybe
bottom-up to enterprise
there are market numbers b2b software as
a service about 20 of your revenues
immediately go to cogs right there it
class servers
uh devops so forth um
10 will go to marketing highly efficient
at scale machine that person goes to
marketing um about five percent will go
to gna and offices and flights ten
percent rest of the teams that's
automation and consultancies and so
forth leave about five percent for just
you know money in the bank safety nets
so i just counted 50 of your revenue
that's gone that's out which leaves
about 50 of your revenues for salaries
this is it this is what you can play
with
um okay that that makes sense what are
we what does it mean let's talk about
salaries for a sec um i'm gonna again
throw some numbers out there so let's
say what is an average salary
think 100 200 500 employees right a lot
of people across the world
let's say ten thousand dollars per month
let's add about 30 company costs let's
use about 150 000 for an average salary
okay that what does that mean right
let's take both of those numbers in uh
this is what it means it means that if
you want to be
break even
you need to hit a number that is 300 k a
r for employee at scale
um which again it's a nice number great
let's use that number what is it
actually means
um so let's talk about what what what it
actually means for a vc back company
there are market industry numbers but we
run the numbers people are running
numbers in their head we're far off
maybe
um
numbers industry numbers are average
error per employee at 10 10 million and
above is about 75k to 100k right so
let's run the math um if you want to be
self-sufficient not highly profitable
just self-sufficient in your business
you don't need to be
uh 10 more efficient or 50 more
efficient not even 100 need to be 3x to
4x more efficient than what the average
vc backup is successful really
successful and growing busy bed
companies are which is crazy crazy crazy
high number how do you even get there
here is an easy recipe uh you need to
part ways with three quarters of your
team uh tomorrow morning and continue to
to do well amazingly well don't lose a
beat
that's that's not not gonna work it's
it's practically impossible
so i'm saying that it's impossible i'm
saying that a lot
um but um but we're bootstrapped cloud9
is bootstrapped there are a few
bootstrap companies out there
so so um
let's talk about that for a second so
cloudy we're software as a service b2b
um ceo co-founder three two were three
co-founders uh myself and my two very
good friends very talented individuals
stalin and dub co-founded the clown
about ten years ago so software service
b2b you cater for developers primarily
primarily for developers you think
images and videos apis build your you
know technological stack from that
um
we just hit 100 million dollars in arr
uh we've never ate any primary round we
don't have investors not external we
don't have a board we don't have a board
this is only us we have the easiest cap
table in the world it's all common
stocks this is really weird
how did we do that
we were very lucky
thank you for listening
but but we were by the way we were we
were incredibly lucky um
but but let me let me try to see if
there are we were very like it's winning
the lottery but but but
there are a few things that can be
translatable right hold me accountable
so it's not all luck but let's let's
talk about that first of all i want to
just uh i'll split that to two early
stage and late stage but early stage
um
let's talk about dev consultancies for a
second because we started i said dev
consultancy there is a surprisingly i
think statistically significant large
number of bootstrapped successful
companies that started as a dev
consultancy um let's talk about why so
mailchimp mailchimp server is different
so c37 signals started as the console we
started as deb consultancy
when i say started as a dev consultancy
what i mean is this so
you start as a dev consultancy we're
catering for
for amazing customers we build products
for them and again and again and then
you realize that there are a few parts
of the products that you repeat all that
you build again and again they don't
exist in the market so in some cases
you'll find an amazing solution so that
in some cases you find hey there is a
gap in the market and then you decide to
turn that
into a startup company
right so this is what i mean by the
consultancy but what does it mean in
practice what it means is that we when
we build that product
we know the market we really know the
market we are the market right we've
been there we're doing it it doesn't it
doesn't it's an interesting proof point
doesn't doesn't guarantee success but
it's a very interesting proof point
right the second thing is we know how to
build this
bring it not bring it to market but
build a product this is what we've been
doing that's our day job we're building
the product and we've built it before
for other companies right we know the
product we can build it incredibly
efficiently very fast um we already have
initial paying customers they won right
we need we need profitability they want
we have initial pay customers because
our customers by their consultancy
customers will be our customers day one
um and then there is something about
running a business as a consultancy and
not as a
startup company right so first of all
it's it's all about our customers right
we're trying to give a lot of value to
our customers and it's drilled into you
right it's a business you run a business
you're you're here to support your
customers 100 from day one um and which
is a little bit funny but but um there
is no vc there is but not busy funding
for for debt consultancy right i'm
giving you a lot of value you're paying
me back this is how it works it's a
win-win situation i'm not uh you know
let's let's give it for free for a few
years and then let's figure out the
market no i'm used to building a product
that is very efficient
my time my value a lot of value and
getting back
getting paid back for that since day one
um
i think it's interesting the the mind
frame thought process and the last thing
is
which again a little bit weird but we
have a day job
startup is tough and there are ups and
downs and slows and fast at least in the
very early days we have a day job and we
can we can pivot we can do
you know both in parallel um
let's talk about the later stage um
because i think my answer for the later
stages is a little bit it's slightly
different what happened to us 10 million
dollars and above
um
you know but but just to summarize this
point maybe
one point that that so don't skip that
so does the dev consultancy that's a
there was another another small point
before moving onwards that's developers
i think there's something interesting
that happened to us with with the
developer
community so um developers are unique
every persona that you work with will be
unique you know
i won't over generalize i'm a developer
um i i used to look at those products i
would use them at my own you know
time off right that's evening hobbies
tinkering will tinker with with products
out there it's not for profit just
trying around different packages
different solutions solutions such as
cloudy i would have used that in my own
projects and then brought them into my
own company because if it works and then
i would embed that in all of my code and
then probably tell someone hey you
better pay for this because we're it's
already embedded across all of our
systems so so pay for this for this
solution right
so developers and then tell everybody
about that
and have a
good feeling that a lot of what happened
to us success was because of the
developer community that we cater for so
with dev consultancy easy fast time to
market profitable day one paying
customers day one and catering for
developers very efficient go to market
word of mouth spread around at least for
the early days it doesn't solve the
later stage let's talk about the later
stage for a second and i think at the
later stage um
and again not not no easy solutions
right how can you be 304x more efficient
than the average company out there uh i
think that our core values are
miraculously aligned it's a little bit
fluffy but but
let me help with that
uh it needs to be something big so
you're completely different than i think
other companies um we truly do believe
that that a small team is is better than
a large team right and um
larger team more people you have to have
more working hands right but more people
a little bit more you know managerial
overheads you pass the ball around lots
of areas that you can fall
there's a lot of diminishing returns
communication is is is more complex
knowledge management and sharing is more
complex but since you have more working
hands right so it's more efficient but
it's not like you know a 3x larger thing
is 3x better than a small team but you
add to that
um another thing that we deeply believe
in 80 20 pareto's law not everything
everything brings value not everything
is really really valuable and you really
if you can really focus on value you can
do some incredible stuff 80 20 whatever
the value really is and we're really
need to find that value point and solve
that and not the rest and that helps
really move the needle and the last
thing is there is something again very
emotional for for me i think i hate
throwing people
at a problem
let's empower the team let's do better
let's automate there are solutions out
there let's not let's throw smarts at
the problem let's solve it smartly um
and all of these
means that we can do a lot with a very
very few individuals it's not for
everybody though right i said core
values because for other individuals
it's all about value it doesn't matter
if it's small it's big let's let's add
more value see though that growth rate
which is great it just wasn't us right
leave a little bit value behind smaller
team amazing let's let's let's move
forward now i'm not sure how this how
much this is translatable but let me try
a few different different personal tips
uh for your journeys um i'll start from
the very beginning it's
maybe contrarian it's really costly
um you think bootstrap and no it's free
it's not free it's really really costly
so we were incredibly lucky don't use
that as an example work with a lot of
different entrepreneurs you will need to
pivot you will need the money you will
find yourself backed against the wall
without that money and that's not a good
place to be so put the money aside
know where you're heading into and and
manage this it's it's it's tough
um second thing is it can't be about
your journey can't be about not talking
to investors
there are
many insane individuals out there much
smarter than me and probably with
many here maybe not all
uh you need to be in touch you need to
contact
these guys you need to learn from them
one thing about the advisor by the way
the the first
we were looking at vcs early on we said
hey we we have to raise funds there is
no way that you can build a successful
startup without raising funds the one of
the first vcs that we met
uh didn't exactly understand sas
developers what that's 2011 2012 um
brought in their own advisor to to help
understand talk to these guys you look
smart but
is there something there and this
advisor talk to us look at what we're
doing basically vc advisor right
told us you're crazy why are we even
talking to those guys to those vcs
yep
you have everything that you need you're
growing so well this is
fix that disconnect that says hey you
can't do that but look at the numbers
it's crazy don't talk to them it's all
good continue forward you're deep
focused focus on your customers i don't
know what you're doing continue doing
that
uh we immediately hired him as an
advisor by the way but that was that was
a vc vc advisor hire a cfo early which
is again crazy what do you mean no
that's late stage where i think our our
head of hr first that when we were 10
people cfo when we were 15 people
um
this is what we do we manage
our
money our our plans our budget really
really really well it's all about that
we need to be self-sufficient we need to
be held accountable to the value that
we're driving we need good plans towards
the future cfo it's not about
need to be very accurate then then you
have a fighting chance in this talk to
vcs all the time you need to be
challenged by the thought process again
it can't be about that
think about why are we trying to
bootstrap our business it can be about
not talking not listening not here in
the market
incredibly smart the only people that
know how to successfully repeatedly
grow startup companies to be ipo ready
right so challenge yourself with a
thought process was instrumental to me i
think um i i said hey you need
immediately immediate rois but again be
very careful of the short-term view i
think mistakes that we've made in the
past
short-term view short-term view is yeah
i need immediate return investment which
means that i'm just looking around at
the next thing that has some value i'm
gonna go here or there
that's not what what it means right you
have to know where you're heading
please set some some some specific goals
missions stay where are you heading with
that so yes continuing small and
impactful stats but towards some goal
right otherwise it's really easy really
easy to distract you oh there is an
amazing company oh there's a lot of
money here but then
focus on that careful of the short-term
view um get paid in advance so here is
another thing that may sound contrarian
recurring revenues
you get recurring revenues monthly
payments
right the difference between getting 100
monthly payments versus 10 of your
customers paying annually
is that you have
twice as much cash to work with twice as
much cash do the math later on 10 of
your customers paying annual you have
twice as much cash and it's it's crucial
for your success
um
last point
last point about this secondaries so
cloudner if you look at cloudhere you'll
see that we we we haven't raised any
primary funds we did secondary rounds so
this is not um vc's financial
institution giving money to cloud to run
its business but this is us building the
legal infrastructure getting partners so
that our um employees can sell uh to
these uh to these uh venture funds and
get some distress get some money off the
table um so money doesn't go to
cloudinary there is no board nothing
changes but just stocks exchanging hands
it was again for me by me i think
instrumental for our success this is not
the uh wait for this miraculous ipo and
all or nothing game no you have ever
sent so for the last since 2015 we're
doing secondary rounds we started
secondary rounds at 100 million dollar
valuation of the company and now the
last one was two billion dollar
valuation earlier this year and we have
a lot of i hope very happy employees in
for us founders again not an all or
nothing game we can look further into
the future right and and bigger company
more successful companies
secondaries
um
i didn't say why
why be bootstrapped the goal is not to
be bootstrapped
um
again completely lucky but there is
something to say here about being
self-sufficient and growing and aiming
to be self-sufficient as a company
and i think it's incredibly healthy way
to grow even just aiming there there's a
300k line aiming there being successful
towards that goal is incredibly healthy
it's holding you accountable to the
value that we're bringing
get vc money get that to grow beyond
inorganic growth something big change
but for the normal run of the business
normal run of the business if it's not
self-sufficient
is it okay are you delivering enough
value to your customers think about it
you'll find a lot of areas that doesn't
match doesn't mix
build healthy companies the second point
i think
um
i think very important here is is is
choice
and
here's the thing you're you're
there is only one consistent way to get
to ipo
if this is your goal ipo level billion
dollar plus companies 100 million
dollars plus arr this is your goal there
is only one consistent way to get there
it's incredibly risky it's incredibly
rewarding and that's vc route this is it
what you're doing in that route you're
shaking hands that for the next 10 years
of your life you're going to work on
this company going to play a double or
nothing game every year and a half
something like that half of the
companies will not get to the next
funding rounds statistics
flip a coin six times you get there to
the ending line that's the most you know
this is it this is the most consistent
way to get to those numbers one in a
hundred will will actually get to the
ipo level successful seed to successful
ipos
having said that
if you lucked out and you could do that
in a more self-sufficient way different
things start to open up cloudy we could
have theoretically sold the company
after one year for 30 million dollars
we would have amazing you know basically
happy
employees would have been financially
set for life made the biggest financial
mistakes of our life in retrospect but
it doesn't matter right we didn't know
that um but we could have done that
after one year we could have stopped it
made sense could have
we could have stopped at 100 million or
200 million we could have made that
decision you could build an incredible
company that is not a billion dollar
company but an amazing 100 200 million
dollars worth of company stop there grow
slowly is partly what 37 signals is
doing
try and build an amazing culture
in-house enjoy what you're doing uh that
you know support your customers support
your employees grow it a different
trajectory it's not an all or nothing
you know move fast and break things a
different path
it gives you a choice and i think it
gave us gave us a choice
let me try and summarize
and in a few key takeaways as i said
this is
bootstrapping is not a goal
bootstrapping is not a goal it shouldn't
be a goal right it's about building very
successful very healthy businesses it's
practically impossible to do that
but it's worth striving towards that
self-sufficiency
the goal there is revenue bigger than
expenses this is non-gaap this is cash
in your bank that you can you can you
can move cash in your bank increases
every month
and it gives you a lot of health and a
lot of choice
um
and think about this
think about this point
see if you can get there see see what
challenges it brings see what you can
look what you know
shake that tree and see what falls when
you're looking at that that goal is a
300 000 here or per employee but online
as i said it shouldn't be about about
bootstrapping you need the funding to
build very healthy companies it is about
building healthy companies so uh with
that hope some of these tips will click
um
think about it some more and and again
kudos to all of you
um i wish you an amazing journey forward
and please go and build very healthy
long-lasting self-sufficient
great companies
thank you so much for listening